# Uth Groups
## An all in one web application for academic collaboration
### Access Uth Groups [here](https://uth-groups.herokuapp.com/) .

The purpose of this diploma thesis is to design and build an application for collaboration of members of the academic community offering chat, video calling, calendar and cloud storage services. This idea arose when the need for digital tools to aid the educational process became more apparent (in the midst of a pandemic). Web software development tools were used for this purpose as well as application programming interfaces. The purely academic nature of the application is intended to deliver prestige and credibility both to the application itself and to its members. More specifically, the user will be able to create teams and groups in which he will be able to communicate with other academic members by accessing a service suite built and designed based on the Google API. A functional description of the application will be made first. The functional description refers to the analysis of the main functionality of the application at user level. In addition, all scenarios of its use will be analyzed in order to understand its usefulness. This will be followed by an extensive analysis of both the tools used and a technical description of how each functionality was implemented. The analysis of the tools used aims to describe the structure of the selected development stack, the advantages and the strategy behind each strand of the stack. The technical description is intended to illustrate the design principle followed, the problems that arose and the design decisions made. The general goal of the application is on the one hand to fill the gap that exists in the digitization of the academic educational process but also to inspire future projects that are based on or approaching the functionality of the present application.
